# Building a Hodgkin-Huxley Spiking Model with Resurgent Sodium Current Gating Kinetics
## April 20, 2021

Part of what drew me to doing my postdoc with David Perkel at the University of Washington is the access to all of the incredible resources both at the university and in the city of Seattle. Between UW's Computational Neuroscience Center and the Allen Institute, this is one of the best cities in the world for those interested in computational neuroscience, which is one aspect of my research that I am aiming to improve. My future goals include modeling both individual neurons and network-wide hierarchies that drive behavior and contribute to learning and memory.

My current research focuses on the contributions of specific voltage-dependent currents to seasonally-driven changes in the excitability of neurons in the motor cortex-like nucleus, RA, of migratory songbirds. When migratory birds enter their breeding season they begin to sing at a higher frequency to attract a female to mate. Female songbirds are particularly attracted to highly stereotyped song, which requires incredible temporal precision in the firing of RA neurons. Part of the increase in control of these firing properties includes an overall increase in the excitability of RA neurons and questions remain around the nature of the currents that underlie this seasonally-dependent change in excitability. To investigate these questions I will be inducing and recording voltage-gated sodium (VGSC) and calcium (VGCC) currents in breeding- and non-breeding conditioned sparrows via voltage-clamp electrophysiology experiments using the whole-cell patch clamp method. I plan to use the endogenously measured currents in a computational model of RA neurons to investigate the extent to which the changes in those currents contribute to the changes in the excitability of RA neurons.

I will begin by recording VGSCs. VGSCs are of particular interest for this project as a recent study from Claudio Mello's lab at Oregon Health and Science University uncovered [a specific VGSC subunit, $\beta$-4, in the RA of Zebra Finches](http://www.zebrafinchatlas.org/gene_info/SCN4B/). The $\beta$-4 subunit is responsible for the resurgent sodium current (RSC), originally identified by [Bruce Bean and Indira Raman in mammalian purkinje neurons](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/9169512/), which contributes to the temporally-precise high-firing rates of those neurons. Its presence in Finches leads to our first hypothesis that *expression of the VGSC $\beta$-4 subunit increases seasonally, resulting in an increase in RSC that contributes to the seasonal increase in RA neuron excitability.*

The plan for the modeling aspect of this study is to develop a classic Hodgkin-Huxley spiking model in which sodium current will be determined with a gating model that mimics the kinetics of the channel with the classic open-block state that causes RSCs. First, I'll build the bones of a Hodgkin-Huxley spiking model, (more info found [here]()).